{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue233;\red251\green0\blue7;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa260

\f0\fs26 \cf2 If you believe that material available on our sites, including those hosted at WordPress.com,\'a0infringes on your copyright(s), please notify us by providing a\'a0DMCA notice. Upon receipt of a valid and complete notice, we will remove the material and make a good faith attempt to contact the user who uploaded the material by email.\
Please note that we are unable to\'a0process\'a0DMCA notices that refer to sites hosted on third party servers that are using the self-hosted\'a0WordPress.org software. Please refer to:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.support.wordpress.com/com-vs-org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://en.support.wordpress.com/com-vs-org/}} for more information on the differences between\'a0WordPress.com and\'a0WordPress.org.\
WordPress.com is a publishing platform where bloggers often use copyrighted materials in commentary or journalism, or transform the materials into something original of their own. As such, before submitting a DMCA notice, it\'92s important to consider if the manner in which the material is used falls under {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.support.wordpress.com/fair-use/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 fair use}}. If you are not sure whether material located on a WordPress.com site infringes your copyright, or if it is subject to fair use protections, you should first consider seeking legal advice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa260

\b \cf2 Please be advised that you may be liable for damages (including costs and attorneys\'92 fees) if you materially misrepresent that material or activity is infringing. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.blog.wordpress.com/2013/11/21/striking-back-against-censorship/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 We have and will seek to collect those damages}}.
\b0 \

\b Your DMCA notice will be forwarded to the party that made the material available, and also may be sent to third parties such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.chillingeffects.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 ChillingEffects.org}}.
\b0 \
Please follow these steps to file a notice:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl380
\ls1\ilvl1
\b \cf2 {\listtext	1.	}Verify that the blog in question is hosted by Automattic. 
\b0 We have no control over blogs that say "Powered by WordPress." Those blogs use the open source WordPress software and are not hosted by us. Please contact the appropriate web host with complaints. We only host blogs that have "wordpress.com" in their URL or that say "Blog at WordPress.
\b \cf4 com
\b0 \cf2 " on the site.\
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	2.	}Contact the blogger directly. 
\b0 Go to the blog post in question and leave a comment with your complaint to see if the matter can be resolved directly between you and the blogger.\
\ls1\ilvl1
\b {\listtext	3.	}Send your complaint to our designated agent via the form below
\b0 , if
\b \'a0
\b0 the issue cannot be resolved directly with the blogger.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\sa260
\cf2 As required by the DMCA, we have a\'a0policy to terminate users and/or sites that we consider to be repeat infringers. Although we won\'92t share the specifics of our repeat infringer policy (we don't want anyone to game the system, after all), we believe that it strikes the right balance of protecting the rights of copyright owners as well as protecting legitimate users from wrongful termination. Please note that notices that are successfully countered, rejected on fair use grounds, or deemed to be fraudulent are not counted against a user or site.\
If you'd prefer not to use our automated form, you can send your complaint to our\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.copyright.gov/onlinesp/agents/a/automattic.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 designated agent}}\'a0(
\b we prefer\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:dmca@automattic.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 email}}
\b0 ):\
Automattic Inc.\uc0\u8232 132 Hawthorne St.\u8232 San Francisco, CA 94107\u8232 Attn: General Counsel\
Phone: (877) 273-8550\uc0\u8232 Fax: (415) 840-0710\
You must include the following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl380
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}A physical or electronic signature of the copyright owner or a person authorized to act on their behalf;\
{\listtext	\'95	}An identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed;\
{\listtext	\'95	}A description of the nature and exact location of the material that you claim to infringe your copyright, in sufficient detail to permit Automattic to find and positively identify that material. For example we require a link to the specific blog post (not just the name of the blog) that contains the material and a description of which specific portion of the blog post - an image, a link, the text, etc. your complaint refers to;\
{\listtext	\'95	}Your name, address, telephone number and email address;\
{\listtext	\'95	}A statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and\
{\listtext	\'95	}A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.\
}